README.md, before:

# Welcome to MyJournal

This is intended to be a place where I can document things that I learn. Everyone is more than welcome to read and use
everything this journal contains. Just be aware that I am not responsible for any damage any script may cause son your
system.

I should note that while I hope this journal is useful to others, I am the main target audience. So there may be some
inside jokes or non-standard words (ex klonk or yoink) that might not make sense to all users, but I hope they don't
harm the readability too much.

Note that this is not intended to be a 100% up-to-date reference on every topic that is listed, so use the info that you
find with care.

## Format

Alongside this README you should find directories containing at least a `README.md`, but no other files or directories
are required. See below for a list of standard file and directory names inside each topic directory. If you are
contributing to this journal, please use these names when creating new files or directories:

| type | name      | purpose                                                                                                                                                                       |
|------|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| f    | README.md | the main file containing notes / information / links / etc regarding a topic                                                                                                  |
| f    | *.md      | any file matching the `*.md` pattern should server a similar purpose to `README.md` bu are included to improve organization or provide more specificity on a larger sub-topic |
| d    | tools     | a collection of scripts or programs which are related to the topic                                                                                                            |
| d    | examples  | a collection of examples of the topic                                                                                                                                         |
| d    | images    | a collection of examples of images related to the topic or used in any markdown files                                                                                         |

## Linting

This journal lints the markdown files with [markdownlint](https://github.com/markdownlint/markdownlint). To make
contributing easier for you, I've added some useful git hooks under the `hooks` directory. To utilize them simply copy
them into the `.git/hooks` directory:

```shell
cp --verbose hooks/* .git/hooks
```

You can also manually run your markdown files through the linter:

```shell
# link this README file
mdl --style style.rb README.md

# run all markdown files through the linter
find . -name '*.md' -exec mdl --style style.rb '{}' +
```

Note that installing the `mdl` too using `gem` as described in [markdownlint's installation instructions](https://github.com/markdownlint/markdownlint#installation)
resulted in a binary named `mdl.ruby2.5` rather than the expected `mdl`. For this project's [hooks](/hooks) to work you
will need to create a symlink to `mdl.ruby2.5` called `mdl` somewhere  on your `PATH`.

## Tools

Under the `tools` directory you wil find some general purpose scripts intended to be used by other scripts in this
journal (ie `tools/logger.sh` is used by `harvester/tools/reset-harvester.bash`)

### Testing

For scripts that can be tested on most systems without any additional software test scripts will be provided. All
scripts should be run using `tools/test/test.sh` as an entrypoint by specifying intended script targets. Targets can be
added by creating a new file under `tools/test/` following the pattern `test_<target_name>.sh`. So if I wanted to test
a script called `do-something`, I would create a test script called `tools/test/test_do_something.sh`. The test script
names don't need to strictly follow the snake case (other than the first `_` after `test`) but they should for
consistency.

To run tests you can run `tools/test/test.sh`.

Commit message:

add better line length mdl ruleset

README.md, after:

# Welcome to MyJournal

This is intended to be a place where I can document things that I learn. Everyone is more than welcome to read and use
everything this journal contains. Just be aware that I am not responsible for any damage any script may cause son your
system.

I should note that while I hope this journal is useful to others, I am the main target audience. So there may be some
inside jokes or non-standard words (ex klonk or yoink) that might not make sense to all users, but I hope they don't
harm the readability too much.

Note that this is not intended to be a 100% up-to-date reference on every topic that is listed, so use the info that you
find with care.

## Format

Alongside this README you should find directories containing at least a `README.md`, but no other files or directories
are required. See below for a list of standard file and directory names inside each topic directory. If you are
contributing to this journal, please use these names when creating new files or directories:

| type | name      | purpose                                                                                                                                                                       |
|------|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| f    | README.md | the main file containing notes / information / links / etc regarding a topic                                                                                                  |
| f    | *.md      | any file matching the `*.md` pattern should server a similar purpose to `README.md` bu are included to improve organization or provide more specificity on a larger sub-topic |
| d    | tools     | a collection of scripts or programs which are related to the topic                                                                                                            |
| d    | examples  | a collection of examples of the topic                                                                                                                                         |
| d    | images    | a collection of examples of images related to the topic or used in any markdown files                                                                                         |

## Linting

This journal lints the markdown files with [markdownlint](https://github.com/markdownlint/markdownlint). To make
contributing easier for you, I've added some useful git hooks under the `hooks` directory. To utilize them simply copy
them into the `.git/hooks` directory:

```shell
cp --verbose hooks/* .git/hooks
```

You can also manually run your markdown files through the linter:

```shell
# link this README file
mdl --style style.rb README.md

# run all markdown files through the linter
find . -name '*.md' -exec mdl --style style.rb '{}' +
```

Note that installing the `mdl` too using `gem` as described in [markdownlint's installation instructions](https://github.com/markdownlint/markdownlint#installation)
resulted in a binary named `mdl.ruby2.5` rather than the expected `mdl`. For this project's [hooks](/hooks) to work you
will need to create a symlink to `mdl.ruby2.5` called `mdl` somewhere  on your `PATH`.

### Custom Rule

#### MY000

I don't like that the default `line_length` rule (ie `MD013`) only checks that there is no whitespace after the given
length limit to allow for long links. I would like to keep the exception for links, but enforce this strictly for
everything else.

I am also not a fan of how `mdl` includes the trailing newline in the total line length. In my implementation I simply
increment the specified `:line_length` param by 1. Ideally we'd actually check for the line ending, but I will only ever
be developing on linux machines for the foreseeable future, so I only really need to be worried about the unix `\n`
line ending.

## Tools

Under the `tools` directory you wil find some general purpose scripts intended to be used by other scripts in this
journal (ie `tools/logger.sh` is used by `harvester/tools/reset-harvester.bash`)

### Testing

For scripts that can be tested on most systems without any additional software test scripts will be provided. All
scripts should be run using `tools/test/test.sh` as an entrypoint by specifying intended script targets. Targets can be
added by creating a new file under `tools/test/` following the pattern `test_<target_name>.sh`. So if I wanted to test
a script called `do-something`, I would create a test script called `tools/test/test_do_something.sh`. The test script
names don't need to strictly follow the snake case (other than the first `_` after `test`) but they should for
consistency.

To run tests you can run `tools/test/test.sh`.
