harvester/README.md, before:

# Harvester

> Harvester is an open-source [hyper-converged infrastructure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyper-converged_infrastructure)
> (HCI) software built on Kubernetes. It is an open alternative to using a proprietary HCI stack that incorporates the
> design and ethos of [Cloud Native Computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud_native_computing).

## Documentation

| description        | link                              |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------|
| harvester doc root | https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.0 |

## Running

Since Harvester is basically just an OS you can run it the same wya you would any other os. You can download the iso
from the harvester [releases](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/releases). For development, I usually just deploy
Harvester on a VM either with VirtualBox or Vagrant.

Ideally, you would want to deploy Harvester on a bare metal server, but I do not have anything lying around to use as a
Harvester machine.

### Virtual Machine

#### Vagrant

One important thing to note is that as Harvester grows, some versions of the `ipxe-examples` will not be compatible with
all harvester isos. For example, the latest commit tha run the `v1.0.3` iso is tagged with `v1.0`.

## Yq

Many of the scripts in harvester rely on `yq` to query and modify yaml files. To get the version used by harvester run
the following command (pulled from
[this line](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/blob/dc6a30894d63a07ba8b6db5433a7054f71445fde/Dockerfile.dapper#L22)
in harvester):

```sh
GO111MODULE=on go install github.com/mikefarah/yq/v4@v4.6.0
```

Commit message:

add some tips for images and testing

harvester/README.md, after:

# Harvester

> Harvester is an open-source [hyper-converged infrastructure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyper-converged_infrastructure)
> (HCI) software built on Kubernetes. It is an open alternative to using a proprietary HCI stack that incorporates the
> design and ethos of [Cloud Native Computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud_native_computing).

## Documentation

| description        | link                              |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------|
| harvester doc root | https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.0 |

## Running

Since Harvester is basically just an OS you can run it the same wya you would any other os. You can download the iso
from the harvester [releases](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/releases). For development, I usually just deploy
Harvester on a VM either with VirtualBox or Vagrant.

Ideally, you would want to deploy Harvester on a bare metal server, but I do not have anything lying around to use as a
Harvester machine.

### Virtual Machine

#### Vagrant

One important thing to note is that as Harvester grows, some versions of the `ipxe-examples` will not be compatible with
all harvester isos. For example, the latest commit tha run the `v1.0.3` iso is tagged with `v1.0`.

## Yq

Many of the scripts in harvester rely on `yq` to query and modify yaml files. To get the version used by harvester run
the following command (pulled from [this line](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/blob/dc6a30894d63a07ba8b6db5433a7054f71445fde/Dockerfile.dapper#L22)
in harvester):

```sh
GO111MODULE=on go install github.com/mikefarah/yq/v4@v4.6.0
```

## Getting Image Names

When creating node templates for rancher, it requires that you provide an image name. You must provide the real name of
the image as stored in teh harvester cluster, so providing the human-readable display name you gave the image when you
uploaded the image to harvester will not work. You cannot view the real name of the image from the harvester UI. To get
it you can leverage `kubectl`:

```shell
$ kubectl get virtualmachineimages
NAME          DISPLAY-NAME                       SIZE        AGE
image-dn9g4   bionic-server-cloudimg-arm64.img   362676224   2m56s
```

## Testing

I've found that the best resource when I don't know how to test a modification that I made works is the
[Harvester Test Repo](https://github.com/harvester/tests/tree/main/docs/content/manual), which contains Harvester's test
suite. To view the manual test steps for many aspects of Harvester, you can navigate to [`docs/content/manual`](https://github.com/harvester/tests/tree/main/docs/content/manual)
and look for any relevant files.
